---
layout: post
title: Why I Make Mixes
---

When I was pretty young, maybe 7 or 8, I was asked by my best friend's parents (who also happened to be my parent's close friends of many years) what my favorite type of music was. Not wanting to embarrass myself, I picked the first genre I could think of out of thin air and replied, "Country". At the time, I could not have cared less about music in general, but it felt good to pick something and stick with it, so that ended up being my answer to the question for the next 5 years or so. The irony of this, if not already evident, will become so shortly.

My conscious journey through the world of music didn't really begin until my early years of high school, when a few significant things happened. In the time before that, I had heard plenty of songs from close friends and family mostly, but had never taken the time to consider what I liked and didn't. However, those songs (mostly Grateful Dead from my father and classic rock from Guitar Hero) did provide a base through which I would take my first steps into what would later become ear medication.

The main key event to occur was receiving my first notebook computer in order to help with school work, and like any high schooler at the time, I of course immediately installed iTunes and later on, Limewire (which I luckily never used very much). I ended up receiving most of my initial collection from my brother, who fueled my initial quest for *drumroll*... classics like Led Zeppelin, the Rolling Stones, Lynyrd Skynyrd, the Beatles, Bob Dylan, the Who, etc. in addition to jam bands like the Grateful Dead and Phish.

The second event to occur was receiving an iPod. They were all the rage at the time and are still extremely popular, but back then using one and having one just felt magical. Being able to zone out to my favorite tunes on the 45 minute bus rides to and from school each day made life that much easier and encouraged me to seek out new music from my friends as well. "My friends" is pretty much the excuse that you would use in order to explain why to this day, I love alternative, folk and new rock bands like Arcade Fire, Architecture in Helsinki, the National, MGMT, Passion Pit, Mumford & Sons, Citizens!, Vampire Weekend, Two Door Cinema Club, the Strokes, the Shins, etc.

After three or four years in high school and an introduction to torrents, I had amassed a decent size collection which sustained me until college came knocking so suddenly. It was then, during the second semester of my first year at university that I was introduced to electronic music. More specifically, I was introduced to the genre of space disco under the tutelage of [Aeroplane](https://soundcloud.com/aeroplane) (before Vito and Stephen split up) by my brother. It didn't take long before I was hooked and scouring the web to download individual songs that they compiled into those angelic hour-long sets. The summer after that first year, Aeroplane opened up a world to me that I never knew existed in electronic music. Even though I tend to shy away from the harder dubstep and techno subgenres (need a good melody), synthesizers and computers nowadays can be used skillfully to create such a wide range of sounds that the electronic music genre effectively intertwines itself with numerous others in addition to sprouting countless subgenres such as nu disco, dance, electro, trance and house. Once I realized this and knew what I had gotten myself into, it was basically implicit that I would never leave. This is one of my favorite Aeroplane mixtapes from way back when:

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F2965585">
</iframe>

Since then, my music collection has grown by leaps and bounds, the majority of which has been electronic, alternative, and new disco. I've even downloaded somewhere in the vicinity of a hundred different dj sets, just to have and hear them. I idolized the jockeys in many ways, admiring their ability to hear transitions on the fly in addition to inducing minor changes in the original song in order to bring the track to a more dancey, pumped-up state. Some of my favorites in the past three years have been the aforementioned Aeroplane, the Magician (the other half of Aeroplane before they split), Mustang, Mighty Mouse, the Twelves, Flight Facilities, Zimmer, and Goldroom. I suppose it was only natural that I attempted to emulate them after a while, though I have to give credit to my college friends and roommmates J and R for not only giving me the ability to do so but also helping me grasp the basics. I created three mixes in the time since then, with plans for a fourth to be put up soon. I know that in the grand scheme of the internet, virtually no one will hear them, but I enjoy being able to select my favorite songs from all of the ones I've listened to and weaving them together in order to create a connection between them personal to me.

My more recent Soundcloud with my most recent mix can be accessed on the sidebar or [here](www.soundcloud.com/clarkbarz), but my two former mixes were created under a different psuedonym and thus, must be accessed [here](www.soundcloud.com/thefonz). If you like what you hear, keep an eye out for my next one!